---
category: post
title: ICFP 2017
permalink: /icfp-2017
date: 2000-01-01
listed: true
---
# ICFP 2017

This year I finally made it to [ICFP](icfp17.sigplan.org) after years of wanting to go. Here are notes on a few of the talks I was most interested in.

## Type-Directed Diffing of Structured Data

This paper presents an idea I've been very excited about -- describing
transformations between algebraic data types rather than the tradition `diff`
approach of comparing textual representations line-by-line.

Some thoughts:
* The idea this work illustrates is very important (especially to working programmers!). `diff` is an insufficient tool and just begging to be superseded by better (structural, type-aware) tools.
* It's done in a very generic setting -- a functorial style in Agda.
* The authors punt on the problem of finding the best diff, instead giving an algorithm for enumerating all diffs.
* I'd like to suggest that in a programming setting it's most interesting when you don't have to search for a diff (as this work does), instead capturing the author's *intent* as the program is written / modified. Thus capturing a "structured trace diff".
  - This generalizes beyond programming to any environment where you capture a sequence of intensional changes.
* How do they handle merges? For now it's deferred to future work.


* [paper](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3122976)

## Ringads and Foldables -- James McKinna

As an aside mentioned James [Quantified Class Constraints](http://i.cs.hku.hk/~bruno/papers/hs2017.pdf). The introduction of this paper is an easy read, mostly historical. A few highlights:

* the idea of quantified class constraints is at least as old as 2000
* GHC ticket 2893 has been open since 2008
* there is an analogy between class constraints and predicates in horn clauses. Quantified class constraints extends this to (essentially) first-order logic
* this paper finally (in 2017) gives a practical design for quantified class constraints

And [(Higher Order) Hereditary Harrop Formulas](http://repository.upenn.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1793):

> Hereditary Harrop formulas are an extension to Horn clauses in which the body of clauses can contain implications and universal quantifiers... We have designed and built a logic programming system which implements hohh in much the same way Prolog implements first-order Horn clauses. This language and its interpreter, collectively called λProlog, will be described.

As far as the main idea of the talk, James proposes the following:

* Foldables are exactly the Functors that take Monoids to F-Algebras
* Ringads are exactly the Monads that take M-Algebras to Monoids

There's of course a lot more to it, but for that I'll direct you to [James' abstract](http://tydeworkshop.org/abstracts/2017/Ringads-Foldables.pdf).

## Staged Generic Programming -- Jeremy Yallop

This piqued my interest as I've been doing a lot of generic programming. Abstract:

> Generic programming libraries such as Scrap Your Boilerplate eliminate the need to write repetitive code,
> but typically introduce significant performance overheads. This leaves programmers with the regrettable
> choice between writing succinct but slow programs and writing tedious but efficient programs.
> Applying structured multi-stage programming techniques transforms Scrap Your Boilerplate from an
> inefficient library into a typed optimising code generator, bringing its performance in line with hand-written
> code, and so combining high-level programming with uncompromised performance.

Great paper.

* [pdf](https://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~jdy22/papers/staged-generic-programming.pdf)
* [github](https://github.com/yallop/staged-generic-programming)

## Generic Functional Parallel Algorithms: Scan and FFT / Compiling to Categories -- Conal Elliott

To me this was some of the most impressive work at ICFP. The common thread seems to be *tooling to compile functional programs to hardware*. As always, Conal does it in the most elegant way possible, and explains his work very well.

* [Compiling to Categories](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=3136534.3110271)
* [Generic functional parallel algorithms: scan and FFT](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=3136534.3110251)

## GHC Core and Linear Logic should be best friends

[Carter](http://www.cstheory.net/) and I presented at the Haskell Implementor's Workshop on some work we've done related to modeling financial contracts. The talk had ~~three~~ four main themes, as I see it:

* Thinking about GHC core as a compiler target. We may or may not be serious about doing this. We should use GHC Core rather than inventing our own compiler intermediate language. Core is the result of decades worth of engineering experience and active use, so we can avoid repeating mistakes by just using it.

* n-ary versions of the linear operators are neat. As an example, the *par* operator can be thought of as a fork that, in order to typecheck, guarantees that all of its children clean up their resources. The 0-ary version (forking to 0 children) is equivalent to halt.

* GHC core has a notion of [*demand analysis*](https://ghc.haskell.org/trac/ghc/wiki/Commentary/Compiler/Demand), which does both strictness and absence analysis. This looks a lot like linearity checking! We should figure out how exactly they're related.

* Closely related to the last -- GHC Core is based on System F-Omega (well, System Fc). We've started some work to try integrating F-Omega with linear types. For similar work, see [Do Be Do Be Do](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09259) and [Quantitative Type Theory](https://bentnib.org/quantitative-type-theory.html).

* [slides](/static/2017hiwslides.pdf)
